---
layout: post
title: Java核心编程-学习笔记1
categories: java
tags: 
- java
- study
---

> <<Core Java Volume 1 - Foundamentals - 9E>>
84

### java文件名需保持与类名一致（包括大小写）
You need to make the file name for the source code the same as the name of the public
class, with the extension .java appended. Thus, you must store this code in a file called
FirstSample.java. (Again, case is important—don’t use firstsample.java.)
java ClassName

### 常量定义用`final`关键字
In Java, you use the keyword final to denote a constant.

### Build-in的类方法和静态方法
There is a subtle difference between the println method and the sqrt method. The
println method operates on an object, System.out, defined in the System class. But
the sqrt method in the Math class does not operate on any object. Such a method is
called a static method. You can learn more about static methods in

### 引用静态方法需使用import static
import static java.lang.Math.*;

### Import
at the beginning of the program. The Scanner class is defined in the java.util package.
Whenever you use a class that is not defined in the basic java.lang package, you need to use
an import directive

The Scanner class is not suitable for reading a password from a console since the
input is plainly visible to anyone. Java SE 6 introduces a Console class specifically for
this purpose. To read a password, use the following code:

    Console cons = System.console();
    String username = cons.readLine("User name: ");
    char[] passwd = cons.readPassword("Password: ");


### System.console()
returns a Console object for interacting with the user through a console window if
such an interaction is possible, null otherwise. A Console object is available for any
program that is launched in a console window. Otherwise, the availability is systemdependent.

### 注意
- sysout syserr main Alt+/
- java中import的是类, 而不是命名空间

## Auto activation 智能提示 (Alt+/)

    Preferences -> Java -> Editor -> Content Assist -> Auto activation triggers for Java 
    Preferences -> Java -> Editor -> Templates
