---
layout: post
title: Python学习4
categories: study
tags: 
- python
---

> Here’s a tip on how to memorize something without going insane: Do a tiny bit at a time throughout
the day and mark down what you need to work on most. Do not try to sit down for two hours
straight and memorize these tables. This won’t work. Your brain will really only retain whatever
you studied in the first 15 or 30 minutes anyway.


## Tuple
Tuple 是不可变的 list。一旦创建了一个 tuple，就不能以任何方式改变它。

What does result = sentence[:] do?
That’s a Python way of copying a list.
a = b  # 只是copy引用
a = b[:]    # clone 复制新对象


    class Employee(Person):
    def __init__(self, name, salary):
    ## hmm what is this strange magic?
    super(Employee, self).__init__(name)
    ## 
    self.salary = salary

## Python 关键字大小写注意
* object
* None

### os.environ
    import os
    path = os.environ["PATH"]
    user = os.environ["USER"]
    editor = os.environ["EDITOR"]
    ... etc ...
Modifications to os.environ affect both the running program and subprocesses created
by Python.

### sys.path
When loading modules, the interpreter searches the list of directories in sys.path.The
first entry in sys.path is typically an empty string '', which refers to the current
working directory. Other entries in sys.path may consist of directory names, .zip
archive files, and .egg files.The order in which entries are listed in sys.path determines
the search order used when modules are loaded.To add new entries to the search
path, simply add them to this list.  
Although the path usually contains directory names, zip archive files containing
Python modules can also be added to the search path.This can be a convenient way to
package a collection of modules as a single file. For example, suppose you created two
modules, foo.py and bar.py, and placed them in a zip file called mymodules.zip.The
file could be added to the Python search path as follows:

    import sys
    sys.path.append("mymodules.zip")
    import foo, bar