---
layout: post
title: Django框架
categories: python
tags: django
---

## Django

ref :<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/intro/tutorial01/>

	#in some dir
	python django-admin.py startproject <pname>

		<pname>/
		    manage.py
		    <pname>/
		        __init__.py
		        settings.py
		        urls.py
		        wsgi.py

	python manage.py startapp <aname>

		<aname>/
		    __init__.py
		    admin.py
		    models.py
		    tests.py
		    views.py

	python manage.py runserver
	python manage.py runserver 8080

	python manage.py syncdb



### Projects vs. apps

What’s the difference between a project and an app? An app is a Web application that does something – e.g., a Weblog system, a database of public records or a simple poll app. A project is a collection of configuration and apps for a particular Web site. `A project can contain multiple apps. An app can be in multiple projects.`

`Your apps can live anywhere on your Python path`. In this tutorial, we’ll create our poll app right next to your manage.py

	python manage.py sql <aname>

`The sql command doesn’t actually run the SQL in your database` - it just prints it to the screen so that you can see what SQL Django thinks is required. If you wanted to, you could copy and paste this SQL into your database prompt. However, as we will see shortly, Django provides an easier way of committing the SQL to the database.

If you’re interested, also run the following commands:

- python manage.py validate – Checks for any errors in the construction of your models.
- python manage.py sqlcustom polls – Outputs any custom SQL statements (such as table modifications or constraints) that are defined for the application.
- python manage.py sqlclear polls – Outputs the necessary DROP TABLE statements for this app, according to which tables already exist in your database (if any).
- python manage.py sqlindexes polls – Outputs the CREATE INDEX statements for this app.
- python manage.py sqlall polls – A combination of all the SQL from the sql, sqlcustom, and sqlindexes commands.

Now, run syncdb again to create those model tables in your database:

	python manage.py syncdb

The syncdb command runs the SQL from sqlall on your database for all apps in INSTALLED_APPS that don’t already exist in your database. This creates all the tables, initial data and indexes for any apps you’ve added to your project since the last time you ran syncdb. syncdb can be called as often as you like, and it will only ever create the tables that don’t exist.

	django-admin.py runserver --settings=mysite.settings

	python manage.py shell

We’re using this instead of simply typing “python”, because manage.py sets the DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable, which gives Django the Python import path to your mysite/settings.py file.

Bypassing manage.py  
If you’d rather not use manage.py, no problem. Just set the `DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE` environment variable to `mysite.settings` and run python from the same directory manage.py is in (or ensure that directory is on the Python path, so that import mysite works).

{% highlight python %}
>>> from polls.models import Poll, Choice   # Import the model classes we just wrote.

# No polls are in the system yet.
>>> Poll.objects.all()
[]

# Create a new Poll.
# Support for time zones is enabled in the default settings file, so
# Django expects a datetime with tzinfo for pub_date. Use timezone.now()
# instead of datetime.datetime.now() and it will do the right thing.
>>> from django.utils import timezone
>>> p = Poll(question="What's new?", pub_date=timezone.now())

# Save the object into the database. You have to call save() explicitly.
>>> p.save()

# Now it has an ID. Note that this might say "1L" instead of "1", depending
# on which database you're using. That's no biggie; it just means your
# database backend prefers to return integers as Python long integer
# objects.
>>> p.id
1

# Access database columns via Python attributes.
>>> p.question
"What's new?"
>>> p.pub_date
datetime.datetime(2012, 2, 26, 13, 0, 0, 775217, tzinfo=<UTC>)

# Change values by changing the attributes, then calling save().
>>> p.question = "What's up?"
>>> p.save()

# objects.all() displays all the polls in the database.
>>> Poll.objects.all()
[<Poll: Poll object>]

{% endhighlight %}

## __unicode__ or __str__?
On Python 3, things are simpler, just use __str__() and forget about __unicode__().

If you’re familiar with Python 2, you might be in the habit of adding __str__() methods to your classes, not __unicode__() methods. We use __unicode__() here because Django models deal with Unicode by default. All data stored in your database is converted to Unicode when it’s returned.

Django models have a default __str__() method that calls __unicode__() and converts the result to a UTF-8 bytestring. This means that unicode(p) will return a Unicode string, and str(p) will return a normal string, with characters encoded as UTF-8.

If all of this is gibberish to you, just remember to add __unicode__() methods to your models. With any luck, things should Just Work for you.


{% highlight python %}

import datetime
from django.utils import timezone
# ...
class Poll(models.Model):
    # ...
    def was_published_recently(self):
        return self.pub_date >= timezone.now() - datetime.timedelta(days=1)

{% endhighlight %}

Note the addition of import datetime and from django.utils import timezone, to reference Python’s standard datetime module and Django’s time-zone-related utilities in django.utils.timezone, respectively. If you aren’t familiar with time zone handling in Python, you can learn more in the time zone support docs.

Save these changes and start a new Python interactive shell by running python manage.py shell again:

{% highlight python %}
>>> from polls.models import Poll, Choice

# Make sure our __unicode__() addition worked.
>>> Poll.objects.all()
[<Poll: What's up?>]

# Django provides a rich database lookup API that's entirely driven by
# keyword arguments.
>>> Poll.objects.filter(id=1)
[<Poll: What's up?>]
>>> Poll.objects.filter(question__startswith='What')
[<Poll: What's up?>]

# Get the poll that was published this year.
>>> from django.utils import timezone
>>> current_year = timezone.now().year
>>> Poll.objects.get(pub_date__year=current_year)
<Poll: What's up?>

# Request an ID that doesn't exist, this will raise an exception.
>>> Poll.objects.get(id=2)
Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
DoesNotExist: Poll matching query does not exist.

# Lookup by a primary key is the most common case, so Django provides a
# shortcut for primary-key exact lookups.
# The following is identical to Poll.objects.get(id=1).
>>> Poll.objects.get(pk=1)
<Poll: What's up?>

# Make sure our custom method worked.
>>> p = Poll.objects.get(pk=1)
>>> p.was_published_recently()
True

# Give the Poll a couple of Choices. The create call constructs a new
# Choice object, does the INSERT statement, adds the choice to the set
# of available choices and returns the new Choice object. Django creates
# a set to hold the "other side" of a ForeignKey relation
# (e.g. a poll's choices) which can be accessed via the API.
>>> p = Poll.objects.get(pk=1)

# Display any choices from the related object set -- none so far.
>>> p.choice_set.all()
[]

# Create three choices.
>>> p.choice_set.create(choice_text='Not much', votes=0)
<Choice: Not much>
>>> p.choice_set.create(choice_text='The sky', votes=0)
<Choice: The sky>
>>> c = p.choice_set.create(choice_text='Just hacking again', votes=0)

# Choice objects have API access to their related Poll objects.
>>> c.poll
<Poll: What's up?>

# And vice versa: Poll objects get access to Choice objects.
>>> p.choice_set.all()
[<Choice: Not much>, <Choice: The sky>, <Choice: Just hacking again>]
>>> p.choice_set.count()
3

# The API automatically follows relationships as far as you need.
# Use double underscores to separate relationships.
# This works as many levels deep as you want; there's no limit.
# Find all Choices for any poll whose pub_date is in this year
# (reusing the 'current_year' variable we created above).
>>> Choice.objects.filter(poll__pub_date__year=current_year)
[<Choice: Not much>, <Choice: The sky>, <Choice: Just hacking again>]

# Let's delete one of the choices. Use delete() for that.
>>> c = p.choice_set.filter(choice_text__startswith='Just hacking')
>>> c.delete()

{% endhighlight %}

Make the poll app modifiable in the admin
But where’s our poll app? It’s not displayed on the admin index page.

Just one thing to do: we need to tell the admin that Poll objects have an admin interface. To do this, open the polls/admin.py file, and edit it to look like this:

	from django.contrib import admin
	from polls.models import Poll

	admin.site.register(Poll)